= GameDev MapBox =

#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: gamedev::sop_mapbox
#icon: 
#tags: tech, model

""" Generate color, height and Open Street Map (OSM) curves using data provided by mapbox.com. """

:video:
    #src:opdef:.?mapboxhelpcard3.mp4
    
The website mapbox.com provides methods to browse and download map data in a variety of formats. This sop provides a wrapper around the mapbox.com API so that you can browse for a location, and quickly have a heightfield setup with height and colour data, as well as OSM data ready to process.

@parameters
    Lat Lon Zoom:
        The coordinates of the map region to download. Can be set manually, or automatically filled out with the GUI browser launched from the 'Look Up' button.
    Look Up:
        Launch the GUI to select the map region to download.
    == API Key ==
    Mapbox API Key:
        The API key required by mapbox. Register an account at mapbox.com, from your account.mapbox.com page is an API key. Copy and paste that key into this field, and either save it with a preset, or save it as an environment variable MAPBOX_API.
    == Base Settings ==
    Refresh:
        Re-download the maps with the current co-ordinates.
    Offsets:
        Offset from the latlong in tile units, useful for setting up tiles of downloads. Eg, make 3 copies of a mapbox sop, and set the other 3 sops to have offset of (1,0), (0,1), (1,1) to create a 4x4 region.
    Height Scale:
        A height multiplier, can artificially boost or lower the terrain height read from mapbox data.
    Resolution Scale:
        Multiplier on heighfield resolution. Default is 2048x2048, setting resolution scale to 0.25 will reduce the heightfield resolution to 512x512, resolution scale 2 will set heighfield resolution to 4096x4096. Note that it won't increase or decrease the quality of the downloaded maps, only the underlying heightfield.
    Terrain Mode:
        Set if terrain should be heighfield or polygon. Polygons are more general, but much slower to compute.
    Height Data Blur Strength:
        Blur applied to the heightmap to reduce fine detail.
    == OSM Settings ==
    Offset:
        Vertical offset applied to OSM data.
    Snap To Terrain:
        Project OSM data onto the heightfield, when this toggle is disabled the OSM data will be flat.
    Building Height From Terrain:
        Set a height attribute if it exists in the OSM data (otherwise calculate it from projecting onto the terrain).
    Color From Terrain:
        Use the downloaded colour map to set a primitive colour for the buildings.
    Resample OSM Curves:
        Enable extra points to be inserted into the building curves.
    Segment Length:
        Length used to generate extra curve points for the buildings.
    == Local Download Paths ==
    Download Path Color:
        Location and name of the downloaded color map.
    Download Path Height:
        Location and name of the downloaded height map.
    Download Path OSM:
        Location and name of the downloaded osm path data.
